# Fuzzy query
Returns documents that contain terms similar to the search term, as measured by a Levenshtein edit distance <sup>[编辑距离](../016.Query%20Parameter/001.fuzziness.md)</sup>. (返回包含与搜索词相似的词的文档，以Levenshtein编辑距离衡量。)


An edit distance is the number of one-character changes needed to turn one term into another. These changes can include:
- Changing a character (box → fox)
- Removing a character (black → lack)
- Inserting a character (sic → sick)
- Transposing two adjacent characters (act → cat)

To find similar terms, the fuzzy query creates a set of all possible variations, or expansions, of the search term within a specified edit distance. The query then returns exact matches for each expansion.(为了找到相似的词，模糊查询会在指定的编辑距离内创建一组搜索词的所有可能变体或扩展。然后，查询将返回每个扩展的精确匹配。)
> 先创建变体或拓展，然后再进行精确搜索

## Example requests
### simple example
```txt
   GET /_search
   {
     "query": {
       "fuzzy": {
         "user.id": {
           "value": "ki"
         }
       }
     }
   }
```

### Example using advanced parameters
```txt
   GET /_search
   {
     "query": {
       "fuzzy": {
         "user.id": {
           "value": "ki",
           "fuzziness": "AUTO",
           "max_expansions": 50,
           "prefix_length": 0,
           "transpositions": true,
           "rewrite": "constant_score_blended"
         }
       }
     }
   }
```

## Top-level parameters for fuzzy
+ \<field\>
  - (Required, object) Field you wish to search.

### Parameters for \<field\>
+ value
  - (Required, string) Term you wish to find in the provided \<field\>.

+ fuzziness
  - (Optional, string) Maximum edit distance allowed for matching. See [Fuzziness](../016.Query%20Parameter/001.fuzziness.md) for valid values and more information.

+ max_expansions
  - (Optional, integer) Maximum number of variations created. Defaults to 50.

+ prefix_length
  - (Optional, integer) Number of beginning characters left unchanged when creating expansions. Defaults to 0.

+ transpositions
  - (Optional, Boolean) Indicates whether edits include transpositions of two adjacent characters (ab → ba). Defaults to true.

+ rewrite
  - (Optional, string) Method used to rewrite the query. For valid values and more information, see the [rewrite parameter](../016.Query%20Parameter/002.rewrite%20parameter.md).

## 注意事项
1. Fuzzy queries will not be executed if search.allow_expensive_queries is set to false.


## 参考
1. [Fuzzy query](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-fuzzy-query.html)



