# Term query <sup>精确查询</sup>
Returns documents that contain an exact term in a provided field.（返回在提供的字段中包含精确术语的文档。）

You can use the term query to find documents based on a precise(精确的) value such as a price, a product ID, or a username.

## Example request
```txt
GET /_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "user.id": {
        "value": "kimchy",
        "boost": 1.0
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Top-level parameters for term
+ \<field\>
  - (Required, object) Field you wish to search.

### Parameters for \<field\>
+ value
  - (Required, string) Term you wish to find in the provided \<field\>. To return a document, the term must exactly match the field value, including whitespace and capitalization.(要返回文档，术语必须与字段值完全匹配，包括空格和大写)
+ boost
  - (Optional, float) Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of a query. Defaults to 1.0.
  - You can use the boost parameter to adjust relevance scores for searches containing two or more queries.
  - Boost values are relative to the default value of 1.0. A boost value between 0 and 1.0 decreases the relevance score. A value greater than 1.0 increases the relevance score.
+ case_insensitive [7.10.0]
  - (Optional, Boolean) Allows ASCII case insensitive matching of the value with the indexed field values when set to true. Default is false which means the case sensitivity of matching depends on the underlying field’s mapping.


## 注意
### Avoid using the term query for text fields.
By default, Elasticsearch changes the values of text fields during analysis. For example, the default standard analyzer changes text field values as follows:
- Removes most punctuation （删除大部分标点符号）
- Divides the remaining content into individual(单独的) words, called tokens
- Lowercases the tokens

To better search text fields, the match query also analyzes your provided search term before performing a search. This means the match query can search text fields for analyzed tokens rather than an exact term.(为了更好地搜索文本字段，匹配查询还会在执行搜索之前分析您提供的搜索词。这意味着匹配查询可以在文本字段中搜索已分析的标记，而不是精确的术语。)
> text 类型的字段使用match类型查询处理

The term query does **not** analyze the search term. The term query only searches for the exact term you provide. This means the term query may return poor or no results when searching text fields.(术语查询不分析搜索词。术语查询仅搜索您提供的确切术语。这意味着在搜索文本字段时，术语查询可能会返回较差的结果或没有结果。)
> term 查询不会分析查询值

To see the difference in search results, try the following example.
1. Create an index with a text field called full_text.
   ```txt
      PUT my-index-000001
      {
        "mappings": {
          "properties": {
            "full_text": { "type": "text" }
          }
        }
      }
   ```
2. Index a document with a value of Quick Brown Foxes! in the full_text field.
   ```txt
   PUT my-index-000001/_doc/1
   {
     "full_text":   "Quick Brown Foxes!"
   }
   ```
   - Because full_text is a text field, Elasticsearch changes Quick Brown Foxes! to [quick, brown, fox] during analysis.

3. Use the term query to search for Quick Brown Foxes! in the full_text field. Include the pretty parameter so the response is more readable.
   ```txt
     GET my-index-000001/_search?pretty
     {
       "query": {
         "term": {
           "full_text": "Quick Brown Foxes!"
         }
       }
     }
     # 无数据返回
   ```
   - [# 无数据返回] Because the full_text field no longer contains the exact term Quick Brown Foxes!, the term query search returns no results.
4. Use the match query to search for Quick Brown Foxes! in the full_text field.
   ```txt
     GET my-index-000001/_search?pretty
     {
       "query": {
         "match": {
           "full_text": "Quick Brown Foxes!"
         }
       }
     }
   ```
   - Unlike the term query, the match query analyzes your provided search term, Quick Brown Foxes!, before performing a search. The match query then returns any documents containing the quick, brown, or fox tokens in the full_text field.
   > 因为全文搜索match会分析你的输入，所以，此时会返回对应的数据

5. Here’s the response for the match query search containing the indexed document in the results.
   ```txt
   {
      "took" : 1,
      "timed_out" : false,
      "_shards" : {
        "total" : 1,
        "successful" : 1,
        "skipped" : 0,
        "failed" : 0
      },
      "hits" : {
        "total" : {
          "value" : 1,
          "relation" : "eq"
        },
        "max_score" : 0.8630463,
        "hits" : [
          {
            "_index" : "my-index-000001",
            "_id" : "1",
            "_score" : 0.8630463,
            "_source" : {
              "full_text" : "Quick Brown Foxes!"
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    }
   ```


## 参考
1. [Term query](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-term-query.html#avoid-term-query-text-fields)