# Range query
Returns documents that contain terms within a provided range.

## Example request
The following search returns documents where the age field contains a term between 10 and 20.
```txt
   GET /_search
   {
     "query": {
       "range": {
         "age": {
           "gte": 10,
           "lte": 20,
           "boost": 2.0
         }
       }
     }
   }
```

## Top-level parameters for range
- \<field\>
   + (Required, object) Field you wish to search.

### Parameters for \<field\>
- gt
  + (Optional) Greater than.
- gte
  + (Optional) Greater than or equal to.
- lt
  + (Optional) Less than.
- lte
  + (Optional) Less than or equal to.
- format
  + (Optional, string) Date format used to convert date values in the query.
  + By default, Elasticsearch uses the date format provided in the \<field\>'s mapping. This value overrides that mapping format.
- relation
  + (Optional, string) Indicates how the range query matches values for range fields. Valid values are:(（可选，字符串）指示范围查询如何匹配范围字段的值。有效值为：)
    - INTERSECTS (Default)
      + Matches documents with a range field value that intersects the query’s range.(匹配具有与查询范围相交的范围字段值的文档。)
    - CONTAINS
      + Matches documents with a range field value that entirely contains the query’s range.(将文档与完全包含查询范围的范围字段值进行匹配。)
    - WITHIN
      + Matches documents with a range field value entirely within the query’s range.(匹配具有完全在查询范围内的范围字段值的文档。)
- time_zone
  + (Optional, string) Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) offset or IANA time zone used to convert date values in the query to UTC.
  + Valid values are ISO 8601 UTC offsets, such as +01:00 or -08:00, and IANA time zone IDs, such as America/Los_Angeles.
  + For an example query using the time_zone parameter, see [Time zone in range queries](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-range-query.html#range-query-time-zone).

+ boost
  - (Optional, float) Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of a query. Defaults to 1.0.
  - You can use the boost parameter to adjust relevance scores for searches containing two or more queries.
  - Boost values are relative to the default value of 1.0. A boost value between 0 and 1.0 decreases the relevance score. A value greater than 1.0 increases the relevance score.


## 注意事项
### Using the range query with text and keyword fields
Range queries on text or keyword fields will not be executed if search.allow_expensive_queries is set to false.

### Using the range query with date fields
When the \<field\> parameter is a date field data type, you can use date math with the following parameters:gt、gte、lt、lte

For example, the following search returns documents where the timestamp field contains a date between today and yesterday.
```txt
GET /_search
{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "timestamp": {
        "gte": "now-1d/d",
        "lte": "now/d"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Missing date components (日期不完整)
For range queries and date range aggregations, Elasticsearch replaces missing date components with the following values. Missing year components are not replaced.
```txt
MONTH_OF_YEAR:    01
DAY_OF_MONTH:     01
HOUR_OF_DAY:      23
MINUTE_OF_HOUR:   59
SECOND_OF_MINUTE: 59
NANO_OF_SECOND:   999_999_999
```

For example, if the format is yyyy-MM, Elasticsearch converts a gt value of 2099-12 to 2099-12-01T23:59:59.999_999_999Z. This date uses the provided year (2099) and month (12) but uses the default day (01), hour (23), minute (59), second (59), and nanosecond (999_999_999).

### Numeric date range value
When no date format is specified and the range query is targeting a date field, numeric values are interpreted representing milliseconds-since-the-epoch. If you want the value to represent a year, e.g. 2020, you need to pass it as a String value (e.g. "2020") that will be parsed according to the default format or the set format.(当没有指定日期格式并且范围查询针对的是日期字段时，将解释表示自纪元以来的毫秒数的数值。如果你希望该值表示一年，例如2020年，你需要将其作为字符串值传递（例如“2020”），该字符串值将根据默认格式或设置格式进行解析。)

### Date math and rounding (日期计算的四舍五入)
Elasticsearch rounds date math values in parameters as follows:(Elasticsearch按如下方式对参数中的日期数学值进行四舍五入：)

+ gt
  - Rounds up to the first millisecond not covered by the rounded date.
  - For example, 2014-11-18||/M <sup>啥意思，参考[Date Math](../022.Common-Options/000.Date%20Math.md)</sup> rounds up to 2014-12-01T00:00:00.000, excluding the entire month of November.

+ gte
  - Rounds down to the first millisecond.
  - For example, 2014-11-18||/M rounds down to 2014-11-01T00:00:00.000, including the entire month.

+ lt
  - Rounds down to the last millisecond before the rounded value.
  - For example, 2014-11-18||/M rounds down to 2014-10-31T23:59:59.999, excluding the entire month of November.

+ lte
  - Rounds up to the latest millisecond in the rounding interval.
  - For example, 2014-11-18||/M rounds up to 2014-11-30T23:59:59.999, including the entire month.


## Example query using time_zone parameter
You can use the time_zone parameter to convert date values to UTC using a UTC offset. For example:
```txt
GET /_search
{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "timestamp": {
        "time_zone": "+01:00",   #1.Indicates that date values use a UTC offset of +01:00.         
        "gte": "2020-01-01T00:00:00", #2. With a UTC offset of +01:00, Elasticsearch converts this date to 2019-12-31T23:00:00 UTC.
        "lte": "now"  # 3.The time_zone parameter does not affect the now value.                
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## 参考
1. [Range query](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-range-query.html)