# Terms set
Returns documents that contain a minimum number of exact terms in a provided field.
> 在一个字段里同时包含一个或几个指定term,这个文档才符合查询条件;否则，不符合查询条件;

The terms_set query is the same as the terms query, except you can define the number of matching terms required to return a document. For example:(terms_set查询与terms查询相同，除了您可以定义返回文档所需的匹配项的数量。例如：)
+ A field, programming_languages, contains a list of known programming languages, such as c++, java, or php for job candidates(候选人). You can use the terms_set query to return documents that match at least two of these languages.
+ A field, permissions, contains a list of possible user permissions for an application. You can use the terms_set query to return documents that match a subset of these permissions.(字段permissions包含应用程序的可能用户权限列表。您可以使用terms_set查询返回与这些权限子集匹配的文档。)

## Example request
### Index setup
In most cases, you’ll need to include a numeric field mapping in your index to use the terms_set query. This numeric field contains the number of matching terms required to return a document.（需要定义一个数字类型的字段,用于查询条件判断）

To see how you can set up an index for the terms_set query, try the following example.

1. Create an index, job-candidates, with the following field mappings:
   - name, a keyword field. This field contains the name of the job candidate.
   - programming_languages, a keyword field. This field contains programming languages known by the job candidate.
   - required_matches, a numeric long field. This field contains the number of matching terms required to return a document.
   ```txt
     PUT /job-candidates
      {
        "mappings": {
          "properties": {
            "name": {
              "type": "keyword"
            },
            "programming_languages": {
              "type": "keyword"
            },
            "required_matches": {
              "type": "long"
            }
          }
        }
      }
   ```

2. Index a document with an ID of 1 and the following values:
   - Jane Smith in the name field.
   - ["c++", "java"] in the programming_languages field.
   - 2 in the required_matches field.

   - Include the ?refresh parameter so the document is immediately available for search.（包括？刷新参数，以便文档立即可供搜索。）
   ```txt
      PUT /job-candidates/_doc/1?refresh
      {
        "name": "Jane Smith",
        "programming_languages": [ "c++", "java" ],
        "required_matches": 2
      }
   ```

3. Index another document with an ID of 2 and the following values:
- Jason Response in the name field.
- ["java", "php"] in the programming_languages field.
- 2 in the required_matches field.
  ```txt
     PUT /job-candidates/_doc/2?refresh
     {
       "name": "Jason Response",
       "programming_languages": [ "java", "php" ],
       "required_matches": 2
     }
  ```

You can now use the required_matches field value as the number of matching terms required to return a document in the terms_set query.

### Example query
The following search returns documents where the programming_languages field contains at least two of the following terms:
- c++
- java
- php

The minimum_should_match_field is required_matches. This means the number of matching terms required is 2, the value of the required_matches field.
```txt
   GET /job-candidates/_search
   {
     "query": {
       "terms_set": {
         "programming_languages": {
           "terms": [ "c++", "java", "php" ],
           "minimum_should_match_field": "required_matches"
         }
       }
     }
   }
```

## Top-level parameters for terms_set
- \<field\>
   - (Required, object) Field you wish to search.

### Parameters for \<field\>
+ terms
  - (Required, array) Array of terms you wish to find in the provided \<field\>. To return a document, a required number of terms must exactly match the field values, including whitespace and capitalization.
  - The required number of matching terms is defined in the minimum_should_match, minimum_should_match_field or minimum_should_match_script parameters. Exactly one of these parameters must be provided.
+ minimum_should_match
  - (Optional) Specification for the number of matching terms required to return a document.(返回文档所需的匹配术语数量的规范。)
  - For valid values, see [minimum_should_match parameter.](../016.Query%20Parameter/000.minimum_should_match%20parameter.md)
+ minimum_should_match_field
  - (Optional, string) Numeric field containing the number of matching terms required to return a document.(看示例，可以使用某个字段)
+ minimum_should_match_script
  - (Optional, string) Custom script containing the number of matching terms required to return a document.
  - For parameters and valid values, see [Scripting](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/modules-scripting.html).
  - For an example query using the minimum_should_match_script parameter, see [How to use the minimum_should_match_script parameter](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-terms-set-query.html#terms-set-query-script).


## 注意
### How to use the minimum_should_match_script parameter
You can use minimum_should_match_script to define the required number of matching terms using a script. This is useful if you need to set the number of required terms dynamically.

### Example query using minimum_should_match_script
The following search returns documents where the programming_languages field contains at least two of the following terms:
- c++
- java
- php

The source parameter of this query indicates:
- The required number of terms to match cannot exceed params.num_terms, the number of terms provided in the terms field.
- The required number of terms to match is 2, the value of the required_matches field.
  ```txt
    GET /job-candidates/_search
     {
       "query": {
         "terms_set": {
           "programming_languages": {
             "terms": [ "c++", "java", "php" ],
             "minimum_should_match_script": {
               "source": "Math.min(params.num_terms, doc['required_matches'].value)"
             },
             "boost": 1.0
           }
         }
       }
     }
  ```
  
## 参考
1. [Terms set](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-terms-set-query.html)