# Wildcard query (通配符查询)
Returns documents that contain terms matching a wildcard pattern.(返回包含与通配符模式匹配的术语的文档。)

A wildcard operator is a placeholder that matches one or more characters. For example, the * wildcard operator matches zero or more characters. You can combine wildcard operators with other characters to create a wildcard pattern.

## Example request
The following search returns documents where the user.id field contains a term that begins with ki and ends with y. These matching terms can include kiy, kity, or kimchy.
```txt
   GET /_search
   {
     "query": {
       "wildcard": {
         "user.id": {
           "value": "ki*y",
           "boost": 1.0,
           "rewrite": "constant_score_blended"
         }
       }
     }
   }
```

## Top-level parameters for wildcard
+ \<field\>
   - (Required, object) Field you wish to search.

### Parameters for \<field\>
+ boost
  - (Optional, float) Floating point number used to decrease or increase the relevance scores of a query. Defaults to 1.0.
  - You can use the boost parameter to adjust relevance scores for searches containing two or more queries.
  - Boost values are relative to the default value of 1.0. A boost value between 0 and 1.0 decreases the relevance score. A value greater than 1.0 increases the relevance score.
+ case_insensitive [7.10.0]
  - (Optional, Boolean) Allows case insensitive matching of the pattern with the indexed field values when set to true. Default is false which means the case sensitivity of matching depends on the underlying field’s mapping.
+ rewrite
  - (Optional, string) Method used to rewrite the query. For valid values and more information, see the [rewrite parameter](../016.Query%20Parameter/002.rewrite%20parameter.md).
+ value
  - (Required, string) Wildcard pattern for terms you wish to find in the provided \<field\>.
  - This parameter supports two wildcard operators:
    - ?, which matches any single character
    - *, which can match zero or more characters, including an empty one
    - Avoid beginning patterns with * or ?. This can increase the iterations needed to find matching terms and slow search performance.
+ wildcard
  - (Required, string) An alias for the value parameter. If you specify both value and wildcard, the query uses the last one in the request body.(值参数的别名。如果同时指定值和通配符，则查询将使用请求正文中的最后一个。)

## 注意事项
### Allow expensive queries
Wildcard queries will not be executed if search.allow_expensive_queries is set to false.


## 参考
1. [Wildcard query](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-wildcard-query.html)